ZIP 209: Prohibit Negative Shielded Value Pool (#210)
zcash/zips: zip-0209.rst

::

  ZIP: 209
  Title: Prohibit Negative Shielded Value Pool
  Author: Sean Bowe <sean@z.cash>
  Category: Consensus
  Created: 2019-02-25
  License: MIT

Terminology
===========

The key words "MUST", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", and "MAY" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
RFC 2119. [#RFC2119]_

> The "Sprout value pool balance", as implied by section 4.11 of the Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_, is the sum of all previous transactions' ``vpub_old`` fields subtracted by the sum of all previous transactions ``vpub_new`` fields.

Reviewer: Nit: the second "transactions" should also be possessive.

Reviewer: Is "previous" well-defined here? Maybe

> The term "block chain" and "network upgrade" are to be interpreted as defined in [#zip-0200]_.
>
> The "Sprout value pool balance" for a given block chain, as implied by section 4.11 of the Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_, is the sum of all ``vpub_old`` fields for transactions in the block chain, minus the sum of all ``vpub_new`` fields for transactions in the block chain.
>
> The "Sapling value pool balance" for a given block chain, as implied by section 4.12 of Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_, is the negation of the sum of all ``valueBalance`` fields for transactions in the block chain.

Reviewer 2: Agreed that the word previous is not necessary unless we are defining the value pools at a specific point in time. I also prefer 'minus' to 'subtracted by'.

The "Sapling value pool balance", as implied by section 4.12 of Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_, is the negation of the sum of all previous transactions' ``valueBalance`` fields.

Abstract
========

This proposal defines how the consensus rules are altered such that blocks which produce negative shielded value pools are prohibited.

Motivation
==========

> It is possible for nodes to monitor the total amount of coins that are shielded or unshielded in each of the Sprout or Sapling shielded transaction protocols. If the amount of coins that are unshielded exceed the amount that are shielded, a balance violation has occurred in the corresponding shielded transaction protocol.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it's correct to say the 'amount of coins'. We could say something like:

In both the Spout and Sapling shielded transaction protocols, nodes are able to monitor the values of coins which are shielded and unshielded. If the value coins which are unshielded exceeds the value of coins which are unshielded,  a balance violation has occurred in the corresponding shielded transaction protocol.

Author: I don't agree with this rewording. I think "amount of coins" is correct. "Coins" don't have value in our system, they just refer to some unit(s) of ZEC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible for nodes to monitor the total value of notes that are shielded to, or unshielded from,
each of the Sprout or Sapling value pools. If the total value that is unshielded exceeds the total value
that was shielded for a given pool, a balance violation has occurred in the corresponding shielded
transaction protocol.
```

> It would be preferable for the network to reject blocks that result in the aforementioned balance violation. However, nodes do not currently react to such an event. Remediation may therefore require chain rollbacks and other disruption.

Reviewer 2: This is a little bit clunky, here is a suggested rewording:

Rather than allow blocks which result in such a balance violation, it would be preferable for the network to reject them. As nodes do not currently react to this, remediation to such an event may require chain rollbacks and other disruptions.

Author: :man_shrugging: I am okay with the current wording. This rewording uses "them" and "this" when there are many objects (blocks, balance violations, the network, etc.)

Specification
=============

> If the "Sprout value pool balance" or "Sapling value pool balance" were to become negative as a result of accepting a block, then all nodes MUST reject the block as invalid.

Reviewer: To accomodate the suggested change in definitions and increase precision, this would become:

> If the "Sprout value pool balance" or "Sapling value pool balance" would become negative in the block chain created as a result of accepting a block, then all nodes MUST reject the block as invalid.

This decouples the spec change from considerations of time ("previous transactions"), which I think is a useful clarification.

::

  ZIP: 209
  Title: Prohibit Negative Shielded Value Pool
  Author: Sean Bowe <sean@z.cash>
  Category: Consensus
  Created: 2019-02-25
  License: MIT

Terminology
===========

The key words "MUST", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", and "MAY" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
RFC 2119. [#RFC2119]_

The term "block chain" and "network upgrade" are to be interpreted as defined in [#zip-0200]_.

The "Sprout value pool balance" for a given block chain, as implied by section 4.11 of the Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_,
is the sum of all ``vpub_old`` fields for transactions in the block chain, minus the sum of all ``vpub_new`` fields for transactions
in the block chain.

The "Sapling value pool balance" for a given block chain, as implied by section 4.12 of Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_,
is the negation of the sum of all ``valueBalance`` fields for transactions in the block chain.

> The "Sapling value pool balance", as implied by section 4.12 of Zcash Protocol Specification [#protocol]_, is the negation of the sum of all previous transactions' ``valueBalance`` fields.

Reviewer 3: I think this definition is unused in the text below (there's only one reference to "Sapling value pool balance" and it's to the "for a given blockchain" variant of the definition above).

Reviewer: I think this is an artifact of accepting my suggestion, which was intended to replace the definition but seems to have kept the old one as well. It should just be removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
